# senior_ws

## Contributors:
Danny, Tamana, Matthew

Welcome to the `senior_ws` repository! This workspace is designed for developing and deploying robotic systems using ROS 2. It includes various packages and tools for controlling differential drive robots, interfacing with hardware, and performing tasks such as localization and navigation.

## Repository Structure

- **.vscode/**: Configuration files for Visual Studio Code, including settings and tasks.
- **build/**: Build artifacts generated by CMake.
- **firmwares/**: Firmware code for different microcontroller boards, including Arduino and ESP32.
- **src/**: Source code for various ROS 2 packages, including:
  - **diffdrive_arduino/**: Packages for controlling a differential drive robot using Arduino.
  - **minibot/**: Packages for a mini robot, including installation instructions and troubleshooting tips.
  - **serial/**: A cross-platform library for serial communication.
  - **sllidar_ros2/**: Packages for interfacing with SLAMTEC LIDAR.
  - **twist_stamper/**: Packages for stamping twist messages with additional information.

## Getting Started

Before you start, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed:
- **Ubuntu 24.04**: The recommended operating system.
- **ROS 2 Jazzy Jalisco**: The ROS 2 distribution used in this workspace.
- **Visual Studio Code**: The recommended IDE, with extensions for C++, Python, ROS, and YAML.

### Setting Up the Workspace

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YJ0528/senior_ws.git
   cd senior_ws
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
   sudo apt install git ros-dev-tools -y
```
3. Run the robot package:
    ```bash
    colcon build
    source install/setup.bash
    ros2 launch minibot robot.launch.py
4. Flash the firmware codes from firmware folder to Arduino based on its types.
5. Setup encoders and wire up the testbed.
6. Introduce Gampad controller:
    ```bash
    ros2 launch minibot joystick_teleop.launch.py
7. Control with keyboard:
    ```bash
    ros2 launch minibot keyboard_combine.launch.py

## Feature
- **Differential Drive Control**: Control differential robots using Arduino and ESP32
- **Localization and Navigation**: Use packages like robot_localization and nav2 for localization and navigation.
- **Sensor Integration**: Integrate sensors such as IMUs, encoders, LIDARs for enhanced perception.
- **Simulation**: Simulate robots in Gazebo and visualize data in RViz. 

## Documentation:
For detailed documentation on each package, refer to the respective README files in the src directory.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
